

This is the model described in the article:  
**A biophysical model of the mitochondrial respiratory system and oxidative phosphorylation.**   
Beard DA. _PLoS Comput Biol._ 2005 Sep;1(4):e36. Pubmed ID:
[16163394](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16163394) , doi:
[10.1371/journal.pcbi.0010036](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.0010036)
.  
**Abstract:**   
A computational model for the mitochondrial respiratory chain that
appropriately balances mass, charge, and free energy transduction is
introduced and analyzed based on a previously published set of data measured
on isolated cardiac mitochondria. The basic components included in the model
are the reactions at complexes I, III, and IV of the electron transport
system, ATP synthesis at F1F0 ATPase, substrate transporters including adenine
nucleotide translocase and the phosphate-hydrogen co-transporter, and cation
fluxes across the inner membrane including fluxes through the K+/H+ antiporter
and passive H+ and K+ permeation. Estimation of 16 adjustable parameter values
is based on fitting model simulations to nine independent data curves. The
identified model is further validated by comparison to additional datasets
measured from mitochondria isolated from rat heart and liver and observed at
low oxygen concentration. To obtain reasonable fits to the available data, it
is necessary to incorporate inorganic-phosphate-dependent activation of the
dehydrogenase activity and the electron transport system. Specifically, it is
shown that a model incorporating phosphate-dependent activation of complex III
is able to reasonably reproduce the observed data. The resulting validated and
verified model provides a foundation for building larger and more complex
systems models and investigating complex physiological and pathophysiological
interactions in cardiac energetics.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Beard, 2005 version 03**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/beard_2005_version03)  
The original CellML model was created and curated by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
The University of Auckland, Bioengineering Research Group

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

